25/10 Crowd Sourcing

Rapidly Generate and Sift a Group’s Most Powerful Actionable Ideas (30 min.)

Reality is only a consensual hunch. – Lily Tomlin

What is made possible? You can help a large crowd generate and sort their bold ideas for action in 30 minutes or less! With 25/10 Crowd Sourcing, you can spread innovations “out and up” as everyone notices the patterns in what emerges. Though it is fun, fast, and casual, it is a serious and valid way to generate an uncensored set of bold ideas and then to tap the wisdom of the whole group to identify the top ten. Surprises are frequent!

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Invite participants to think big and bold and discover the most attractive of their ideas together by asking, “If you were ten times bolder, what big idea would you recommend? What first step would you take to get started?”

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Open space without chairs or tables
    Participants will be standing and milling about
    Index cards, one for each participant

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone is included and participates at the same time
    Everyone has an equal opportunity to contribute

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Individually to generate bold idea and first step and write on index card
    Everyone standing to pass cards around
    Pairs to exchange thoughts
    Individually to score the card participants have in their hand
    Whole group for sharing highest final scores and ideas

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Explain the process. First, every participant writes on an index card his or her bold idea and first step. Then people mill around and cards are passed from person to person. "Mill and Pass only. No reading." When the bell rings, people stop passing cards and pair up to exchange thoughts on the cards in their hands. [Another good option is to read the card with no talking]. Then participants individually rate the idea/step on their card with a score of 1 to 5 (1 for low and 5 for high) and write it on the back of the card. This is called "Read and Score." When the bell rings, cards are passed around a second time "Mill and Pass" until the bell rings and the "Read and Score" scoring cycle repeats. This is done for a total of five scoring rounds. At the end of cycle five, participants add the five scores on the back of the last card they are holding. Finally, the ideas with the top ten scores are identified and shared with the whole group. 3 min.
    Demonstrate one exchange-and-scoring interaction using a sample index card to clarify what is expected during the milling, namely no reading of the cards, only passing the cards from person to person so that each person has one and only one card in hand. The process can be confusing for some people. 2 min.

    Invite each participant to write a big idea and first step on his or her card. 5 min.
    Conduct five 3-minute exchange-and-scoring rounds with time for milling (and laughing) in between. 15 min.
    Ask participants to add the 5 scores on the back of the card they are holding
    Find the best-scoring ideas with the whole group by conducting a countdown. Ask, “Who has a 25?” Invite each participant, if any, holding a card scored 25 to read out the idea and action step. Continue with “Who has a 24?,” “Who has a 23”…. Stop when the top ten ideas have been identified and shared. 5 min.
    End by asking, “What caught your attention about 25/10?” 2 min.
