Appreciative Interviews (AI)

Discovering and Building on the Root Causes of Success (1 hr.)

What is made possible? In less than one hour, a group of any size can generate the list of conditions that are essential for its success. You can liberate spontaneous momentum and insights for positive change from within the organization as “hidden” success stories are revealed. Positive movement is sparked by the search for what works now and by uncovering the root causes that make success possible. Groups are energized while sharing their success stories instead of the usual depressing talk about problems. Stories from the field offer social proof of local solutions, promising prototypes, and spread innovations while providing data for recognizing success patterns. You can overcome the tendency of organizations to underinvest in social supports that generate success while overemphasizing financial support, time, and technical assistance.

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Ask, “Please tell a story about a time when you worked on a challenge with others and you are proud of what you accomplished. What is the story and what made the success possible? Pair up preferably with someone you don’t know well.”

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Unlimited number of groups
    Chairs for people to sit in pairs face-to-face; no tables needed.
    Paper for participants to take notes
    Flip chart to record the stories and assets/conditions

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone is included
    Everyone has equal time and opportunity to contribute

4. How Groups Are Configured

    First pairs, then groups of 4.
    Encourage groups to be diverse

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Describe the sequence of steps and specify a theme or what kind of story participants are expected to tell. 3 min.
    In pairs, participants take turns conducting an interview and telling a success story, paying attention to what made the success possible. 7–10 min. each; 15–20 min. total.
    In groups of 4, each person retells the story of his or her pair partner. Ask participants to listen for patterns in conditions/assets supporting success and to make note of them. 15 min. for groups of 4.
    Collect insights and patterns for the whole group to see on a flip chart. Summarize if needed. 10-15 min.
    Ask, “How are we investing in the assets and conditions that foster success?” and “What opportunities do you see to do more?” Use 1-2-4-All to discuss the questions. 10 min.
