Engage Everyone Simultaneously in Generating Questions, Ideas, and Suggestions (12 min.)

What is made possible? You can immediately include everyone regardless of how large the group is. You can generate better ideas and more of them faster than ever before. You can tap the know-how and imagination that is distributed widely in places not known in advance. Open, generative conversation unfolds. Ideas and solutions are sifted in rapid fashion. Most importantly, participants own the ideas, so follow-up and implementation is simplified. No buy-in strategies needed! Simple and elegant!

 

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Ask a question in response to the presentation of an issue, or about a problem to resolve or a proposal put forward (e.g., What opportunities do YOU see for making progress on this challenge? How would you handle this situation? What ideas or actions do you recommend?)

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Unlimited number of groups
    Space for participants to work face-to-face in pairs and foursomes
    Chairs and tables optional
    Paper for participants to record observations and insights

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone in the group is included (often not the facilitator)
    Everyone has an equal opportunity to contribute

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Start alone, then in pairs, then foursomes, and finally as a whole group

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Silent self-reflection by individuals on a shared challenge, framed as a question (e.g., What opportunities do YOU see for making progress on this challenge? How would you handle this situation? What ideas or actions do you recommend?) 1 min.
    Generate ideas in pairs, building on ideas from self-reflection. 2 min.
    Share and develop ideas from your pair in foursomes (notice similarities and differences). 4 min.
    Ask, “What is one idea that stood out in your conversation?” Each group shares one important idea with all (repeat cycle as needed). 5 min. 
