Troika Consulting

Get Practical and Imaginative Help from Colleagues Immediately (30 min.)

To listen is very hard, because it asks of us so much interior stability that we no longer need to prove ourselves by speeches, arguments, statements or declarations. True listeners no longer have an inner need to make their presence known. They are free to receive, welcome, to accept. – Henri Nouwen

What is made possible? You can help people gain insight on issues they face and unleash local wisdom for addressing them. In quick round-robin “consultations,” individuals ask for help and get advice immediately from two others. Peer-to-peer coaching helps with discovering everyday solutions, revealing patterns, and refining prototypes. This is a simple and effective way to extend coaching support for individuals beyond formal reporting relationships. Troika Consulting is always there for the asking for any individual who wishes to get help from colleagues or friends.

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Invite the group to explore the questions “What is your challenge?” and “What kind of help do you need?”

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Any number of small groups of 3 chairs, knee-to-knee seating preferred. No table!

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    In each round, one participant is the “client,” the others “consultants”
    Everyone has an equal opportunity to receive and give coaching

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Groups of 3
    People with diverse backgrounds and perspectives are most helpful

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Invite participants to reflect on the consulting question (the challenge and the help needed) they plan to ask when they are the clients. 1 min.
    Groups have first client share his or her question. 1-2 min.
    Consultants ask the client clarifying questions. 1-2 min.
    Client turns around with his or her back facing the consultants
    Together, the consultants generate ideas, suggestions, coaching advice. 4-5 min.
    Client turns around and shares what was most valuable about the experience. 1-2 min.
    Groups switch to next person and repeat steps.
