Min Specs

Specify Only the Absolute “Must dos” and “Must not dos” for Achieving a Purpose (35-50 min.)

A designer knows perfection is achieved not when there is nothing more to add but when there is nothing more that can be taken away. – Antoine de Saint-Exupery

What is made possible? By specifying only the minimum number of simple rules, the Min Specs that must ABSOLUTELY be respected, you can unleash a group to innovate freely. Respecting the Min Specs will ensure that innovations will be both purposeful and responsible. Like the Ten Commandments, Min Specs are enabling constraints: they detail only must dos and must not dos. You will eliminate the clutter of nonessential rules, the Max Specs that get in the way of innovation. Often two to five Min Specs are sufficient to boost performance by adding more freedom AND more responsibility to the group’s understanding of what it must do to make progress. Out of their experience in the field, participants shape and adapt Min Specs together, working as one. Following the rules makes it possible for the group to go wild!

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    In the context of a challenging activity, a new initiative, or a strategic bottleneck, invite the participants to first generate the entire list of all the do’s and don’ts that they should pay attention to in order to achieve a successful outcome. This is the list of maximum specifications (Max Specs).
    After the list of Max Specs has been developed, ask the participants to reduce it to the absolute minimum needed to achieve their purpose. Invite them to sift through the list one item at a time and eliminate every rule that gets a positive answer to the question, “If we broke or ignored this rule, could we still achieve our purpose?”

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Groups of 4 to 7 chairs around small tables
    Paper to record Max and Min Specs

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone involved in the activity or program can participate
    Everyone has an equal opportunity to contribute

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Start individually then small groups of 4 to 7
    Whole group for sharing

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Generate the list of all must-do and must-not-do activities (Max Specs), at first alone for one minute then consolidate and expand in the small group for five minutes. Make list as complete as possible in a short time. 6 min.
    Each small group tests each spec on its Max Spec list against the purpose statement. If the spec can be violated and the purpose still achieved, the spec is dropped from the list. 15 min.
    Do a second round if needed. 15 min.
    Compare across small groups and consolidate to the shortest list. 15 min.

WHY? Purposes

    Evaluate and decide what is absolutely essential for success
    Open space for new possibilities
    Reduce frontline frustration and free people from micromanagement
    Focus or redirect resources and energies where it matters
    Help guide scaling up and spreading innovations with fidelity
    Simplify strategy in fast moving markets

Tips and Traps

    Focus attention on a tangible challenge, not a platitude
    Start with a complete list of dos
    Include as many players/stakeholders as possible
    Be ruthless in dropping dos: don’t allow max specs to creep in
    Do extra rounds as needed
    Make the Min Specs official! Live by them (no “yes but”)
    Give more weight to direct experience in the field rather than conceptual knowledge
    Keep the Min Specs alive by adapting them based on field experiences and Simple Ethnography observations
    If groups are having difficulty, you may need to circle back to clarify purpose and make sure that it is down to what is truly important.