User Experience Fishbowl

Share Know-How Gained from Experience with a Larger Community (35-70 min.)

What is made possible? A subset of people with direct field experience can quickly foster understanding, spark creativity, and facilitate adoption of new practices among members of a larger community. Fishbowl sessions have a small inside circle of people surrounded by a larger outside circle of participants. The inside group is formed with people who made concrete progress on a challenge of interest to those in the outside circle. The fishbowl design makes it easy for people in the inside circle to illuminate what they have done by sharing experiences while in conversation with each other. The informality breaks down the barriers with direct communication between the two groups of people and facilitates questions and answers flowing back and forth. This creates the best conditions for people to learn from each other by discovering answers to their concerns themselves within the context of their working groups. You can stop imposing someone else’s practices!

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Ask those in the fishbowl to describe their experience—the good, the bad, and the ugly—informally, concretely, and openly. Invite them to do it in conversation with each other as if the audience wasn’t there and they were sharing stories around a watering hole or stuck in a van on the way to the airport. Firmly, ask them to avoid presenting to the audience.
    Invite the people outside the fishbowl to listen, observe nonverbal exchanges, and formulate questions within their small groups.

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Three to 7 chairs in a circle in the middle of a room
    Microphones for inner circle if whole group is larger than 30 to 40
    If possible, a low stage or bar stools make it possible for people in the outer circle to better see the interactions
    As many chairs as needed in an outer circle around the inner circle, in clumps of 3 to 4 chairs
    In large groups, have additional microphones ready for outside circle questions

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone in the inner circle has an equal opportunity to contribute
    Everyone in the outer circle has an equal opportunity to ask questions

4. How Groups Are Configured

    One inner circle group of 3–7 people
    One outer circle in multiple small satellite groups of 3–4 people
    1-2-4-All configuration for the debrief

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Explain the fishbowl configuration and steps. 2 min.
    Inner circle conversation goes on until it ends on its own. 10 to 25 min.
    Satellite groups in outer circle formulate observations and questions. 4 min.
    Questions submitted to the inner circle are answered, and back-and-forth interaction between inner and outer circles goes on as needed until all the questions are answered. 10 to 25 min.
    Debrief using W³ (What? So What? Now What?) and ask, “What seems possible now?” 10 to 15 min.
