Wicked Questions

Articulate the Paradoxical Challenges That a Group Must Confront to Succeed (25 min.)

    How wonderful that we have met with a paradox. Now we have some hope of making progress. – Niels Bohr

What is made possible? You can spark innovative action while diminishing “yes, but…” and “either-or” thinking. Wicked Questions engage everyone in sharper strategic thinking by revealing entangled challenges and possibilities that are not intuitively obvious. They bring to light paradoxical-yet-complementary forces that are constantly influencing behaviors and that are particularly important during change efforts. Wicked Questions make it possible to expose safely the tension between espoused strategies and on-the-ground circumstances and to discover the valuable strategies that lie deeply hidden in paradoxical waters.

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Ask, “What opposing-yet-complementary strategies do we need to pursue simultaneously in order to be successful?”

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    Groups of 4 to 6 chairs with or without small round tables
    Paper for recording

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone involved in the work or topic is included
    Everyone has an equal opportunity to contribute

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Individually
    Small groups (6 people or smaller)
    Whole group

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Introduce the concept of Wicked Questions and paradox. Illustrate with a couple of examples of Wicked Questions. Give the following template, “How is it that we are … and we are … simultaneously?” as the sentence to complete by inserting the two opposite strategies that are at play. 5 min.
    First alone then in small groups, each participant generates pairs of opposites or paradoxes at play in his or her work using the Wicked Question format. 5 min.
    Each group selects its most impactful and wicked Wicked Question. All selected Wicked Questions are shared with the whole group. 5 min.
    Whole group picks out the most powerful ones and further refines the Wicked Questions. 10 min.

WHY? Purposes

    Describe the messy reality of the situation while engaging collective imagination
    Develop innovative strategies to move forward
    Avoid wild or “bipolar” swings in policy and action
    Evaluate decisions: Are we advancing one side or the other or attending to both?
    Ignite creative tension, promoting more freedom and accountability as the discovery process unfolds

Tips and Traps

    Make sure that participants express both sides of the paradox in an appreciative form: “How is it that we are ____ and we are ____ simultaneously?” and not in opposition of each other
    Use a variety of examples to make the paradoxical attributes accessible
    Work in quick cycles, failing forward as you make the questions perfectly wicked
    Avoid nasty questions that appoint blame or are unbalanced on one side. Here is an example of a nasty question: “How can we focus on our customers when we are forced to spend more and more time on the headquarters’ bureaucracy?”
    Avoid data questions that can be answered with more analysis
    Invite participants to include others in making their questions more wicked
    Draw on field experience; ask, “When have you noticed these two things to be true at the same time?”
    There are no quick fixes to Wicked Questions and you may need to return to the challenge periodically with additional rounds of Wicked Questions
    Often a handful of people are very skilled at generating Wicked Questions: let them shine and inspire the rest of the group!
