Drawing Together

Reveal Insights and Paths Forward Through Nonverbal Expression (40 min.)

A vivid imagination compels the whole body to obey. – Aristotle

What is made possible? You can help people access hidden knowledge such as feelings, attitudes, and patterns that are difficult to express with words. When people are tired, their brains are full, and they have reached the limits of logical thinking, you can help them evoke ideas that lie outside logical, step-by-step understanding of what is possible. Stories about individual or group transformations can be told with five easy-to-draw symbols that have universal meanings. The playful spirit of drawing together signals that more is possible and many new answers are expected. Drawing Together cuts through the culture of overreliance on what people say and write that constrains the emergence of novelty. It also provides a new avenue of expression for some people whose ideas would otherwise not surface.

Five Structural Elements – Min Specs

1. Structuring Invitation

    Invite participants to tell a story about a challenge they face, or a common challenge, using only five symbols and no words

2. How Space Is Arranged and Materials Needed

    An open wall with tapestry paper or easels with blank pages in flip charts
    Water-based markers; soft pastels if you are feeling colorful

3. How Participation Is Distributed

    Everyone is included since the five symbols are easy for everyone to draw
    All participants make their individual drawings simultaneously

4. How Groups Are Configured

    Individually to practice the drawing of the symbols
    Individually to make first and second drafts of their drawings
    Small groups of 1–4 others to interpret the drawings
    Whole group for debrief (using 1-2-4-All for large groups)

5. Sequence of Steps and Time Allocation

    Introduce the idea of drawing together by drawing and describing the meaning of each symbol. 5 min.
        Circle = wholeness;
        Rectangle = support;
        Triangle = goal;
        Spiral = change;
        Star person [equidistant cross] = relationship
    Invite participants to practice drawing the five symbols: circle, rectangle, triangle, spiral, star person. 5 min.
    Invite participants to combine the symbols to create the first draft of a story, working individually and without words, about “the journey” of working on a challenge or an innovation. 10 min.
    Invite participants to create a second draft, in which they refine their story by dramatizing the size, placement, and color of the symbols. 10 min.
    Ask participants to invite another individual or their small group to interpret their drawings. Remind them that the person who has done the drawing does not speak. 5 min.
    Ask the whole group, “Together, what do the drawings reveal?” Use 1-2-4-All with larger groups. 5 min.
