1. Rapidly share challenges and expectations while building new connections
2. Make the purpose of your work together clear
3. Together, look back on progress to-date and decide what adjustments are needed
4. Stop counterproductive activities & behaviors to make space for innovation
5. Discover & build on the root causes of success
6. Engage everyone simultaneously in generating questions/ideas/suggestions
7. Share know-how gained from experience with a larger community
8. Discover & focus on what each person has the freedom and resources to do now
9. Rapidly generate & sift a group’s most powerful actionable ideas
10. Get practical and imaginative help from colleagues immediately
11. Engage everyone in making sense of profound challenges
"12. Specify only the absolute 
 “Must do’s” & “Must not do’s” for achieving a purpose"
13. Tap the wisdom of the whole group in rapid cycles
14. Articulate the paradoxical challenges that a group must confront to succeed
15. Reveal insights and paths forward through non-verbal expression
16. Develop effective solutions to chronic challenges while having serious fun
17. Sort challenges into simple, complicated and complex categories
18. Spread good ideas and make informal connections with innovators
19. Practice deeper listening and empathy with colleagues
20. Map informal connections and decide how to strengthen the network to  achieve a purpose
21. Define the step-by-step design elements for bringing initiatives or meetings to productive endpoints
22. Liberate inherent action and leadership in large groups
23. Discover, spark and unleash local solutions to chronic problems
24. Move from either-or to robust both-and solutions
25. Reveal and understand relationship patterns that create value or dysfunctions
26. Develop strategies for successfully operating in a range of plausible yet unpredictable futures
27. Define the 5 elements that are essential for a resilient & enduring initiative
28. Analyze the full portfolio of activities & relationships to identify obstacles & opportunities for progress
29. Understand how embedded systems interact, evolve, influence the spread of innovation, and transform
30. Surface most essential needs across functions and accept or reject requests for support
31. Reconnect the experience of leaders and experts with the people closest to the challenge at hand
32. Practice progressive methods for helping others, receiving help and asking for help
33. Observe and record actual behaviors of users in the field
